Okay, here we are in the code editor.
First things, we need to undo
the work we did in option 3.
We're gonna get rid of
the memoization stuff.
That was a cool trick, but
for this particular problem,
there was a much better option.
If you try tabulation and
that ends up not working,
I think the next best one is
often memoization, but again,
you have to make sure you're using
something in the appropriate way.
Okay, so
what are we going to do to do countPaths?
So basically, I'm going to delete
what's currently in countPaths.
Actually, I guess I should have
probably kept that first one,
because that base
condition stays the same.
The base condition is still if we
call countPaths with a hopCount is 0,
the base condition is still the only thing
that you can do is stay on that digit,
so that's a count of 1.
All right, remember in the slides, and
if you want to have the slides up while
I'm typing, sometimes that's
a little more helpful for folks to
kind of visually connect or have the
slides on a separate window side by side.
But the first step that
we wanted to do was have,
An array that was initialized to all 1s.
That was our priorPathCount.
That basically represents calling each
one of these functions with hopCount 0.
We're just gonna go ahead and pre-fill
a set of buckets with all those ones.
So our trick in JavaScript for
creating an array of ten elements long
with 1s in it is to do array of ten and
then fill with the one value.
So that's our little temporary
priorPathCounts that we will replace each
time as we go.
We're gonna set ourselves up a loop.
This loop is the hopCount.
Remember I told you we had an iteration
count that was just decrementing hops, so
I'm gonna have it counting upward rather
than counting downward, but only because
it's a little bit more convenient
to write the terminating condition.
But it's basically the same thing, we're
gonna do our six iterations because if we
pass in hopCount of six,
we're gonna do six iterations here.
So hops = 0,
hops less than hopCount, and hops++.
That's our outer loop.
And whatever our loop ends up computing,
the thing that we're
going to return is whatever is in prior
pathCounts at the position startingDigit.
We're taking advantage of the fact
that our digits are zero-based and
our arrays are zero-based.
If your problem had a different
set of values for the buckets,
then you'd need to do a translation here.
But in our case, it's quite convenient
that the digits on the dialpad happened to
be zero-based,
just like our arrays are indexed.
But that ends up selecting that bucket.
For example, 4 would have 168 in it,
and that's what we return.
For each hopCount, remember that we
did a loop through all ten digits.
I'm sorry, the first thing that we
did was set up a bucket of 0s, so
that will call pathCount,
With ten buckets all filled with 0s.
That's our actual buckets that
we're gonna be filling into.
And then we will replace priorPathCounts
with pathCounts when we slide it up.
All right, now we need to set up a loop
to go through all the ten digits.
It's pretty straightforward.
Hopefully, that makes sense.
We need to go through the ten digits,
so we set up a plain old normal for
loop to go through.
And what was the last thing that we did?
For each digit, what did we do?
We visited the other digits
that we could have been at to
get to that digit, so
we need one more loop inside.
I'll say n is the digit of the nearby key,
Of the digit that we're on.
So if we are on digit 0,
the nearby keys of digit will give
us an array of 4 and 6, so
we will go visit 4 and 6, and
we will take into our current
count at digitPosition.
We will simply add in or append in
the value that is in the priorPathCount,,
Of n.
So remember when we reached
out to the other two and
we grabbed their priorPathCounts and added
them together and made our own bucket?
So we're going through all these ten
buckets and grabbing in the two or
the three from the other places,
adding them together to create pathCount.
And our last step in this
algorithm is at the end of
each hop iteration, so
on the outside of the digits,
we simply replace
priorPathCount with pathCount.
This is 11 lines of code and the recursive
implementation was 6 lines of code,
so yes, this is a little bit more code.
But let's take a step back and
realize that this is not hundreds
of lines of complex code, is it?
It's a set of for loops.
And most of us have enough
familiarity with programming and
with JavaScript that we can
manage to reason about for loops.
The real key here is not
the code that we could write.
I mean, yes, that's a thing,
we need to be able to translate
what we've planned out into code.
But I figured out on the slides
what the algorithm was, and
then I simply wrote a line of code for
each slide.
That's it, it's not like I had to
come up with some whole new theory or
whole new algorithm.
I just figured out on those slides,
well, what would I need to do?
I would need to do a loop for all
the hopCounts, and then for each of those
hopCounts, I need to do a loop for all of
the digits, and for each of those digits,
a loop for all of the nearby keys
that they could have been at.
And that's it, so I needed three loops and
I needed two arrays.
I wrote it out on the slides just like you
could write it out on a sheet of paper,
coming up with a plan for how to solve it.
The translation to code is
almost the trivial part.
And I know that we as engineers kinda
feel like maybe it's the reverse.
We kinda feel like, no, the really
hard part is the writing of the code.
The big takeaway that I hope you're
getting from this workshop, and
I keep repeating myself over and
over, you've got to first think the
problem before you can code the problem.
If you can solve thinking the problem,
the code is probably gonna shake
itself out pretty straightforward.
I mean that's not entirely true, because,
yes, there are complexities depending on
our language,
depending on the mechanisms that we use.
Sometimes we do face these challenges, but
the vast majority of the problem here is
getting our brains to think
about the problem correctly.
We have to think algorithms
before we can code algorithms.
As I've said multiple times in this
course, there's no way that anybody
could expect you to now be an expert on
bottom-up dynamic programming tabulation
because you just simply saw one problem
that one guy helped you write code for.
That's not sufficient.
But hopefully, there's enough from the way
I've described it, cuz when I was trying
to learn this stuff, there was not
a lot of great material out there.
The only material I found was, if you
wanna compute Fibonacci with tabulation or
something, this is very toy problems and
the solutions end up looking very,
very specific to the problem.
And this one is a solution that's very,
very specific to the problem, but
there are pieces of this that
I do see as generalizable.
If I can think about a problem as having
a very specific defined set of inputs,
if I can figure out what those would be,
then I can figure out how to count
each of them in the reverse order
that I would go through it when I
was doing a recursive approach.
So maybe the first step is to
write the recursive version, so
that I have my brain in tune with what
the order is, if I would do it recursively
in this order, do the reverse order,
to do a bottom-up tabulation.
Those are things that
are generalizable principles and
hopefully will help you attempt this
technique the next time you're trying
to write a recursive counting solution.
Questions, I see questions.
>> Having three nested loops here,
is this acceptable in this scenario,
because the iterations do
not grow much as n grows?
>> The iterations don't grow any.
[LAUGH] This is all fixed work.
Look at the values that
are returning here.
We have a fixed for loop of 10,
that never changes no matter
how many hopCounts there are.
And we have this for loop, this inner for
loop is only looking at the nearby digits,
which is based on the fixed geometry
of the dial pad which never changes.
It's either 2 or 3 or 0 every single time.
So these two inner loops don't grow
at all and this loop only grows at n.
So that should tell you more than
anything why this is a linear algorithm,
cuz the only thing that grows is
the outer loop and it only grows by n.
There's nothing else complecting it.
There's nothing else adding to it.
It's not like one of these inner
loops is then also bounded by n, so
now it's an n squared or
something like that.
If we go back to the browser,
just to kinda get a sense of things,
I'm gonna refresh, and
I'm gonna go ahead and
start us at 25, [LAUGH] and
I'm gonna click the 4.
And we're gonna see that
that was 0.2 milliseconds.
And then I'm gonna go up to 250,
and that was 1.2 milliseconds.
And then I'm gonna go up to 2500,
and that was 13.1 milliseconds.
Because it's doing almost no work.
It's just simply running through.
And if we go back to the slides,
we'll be able to kind of reinforce
what's actually happening here.
An O(6) does exactly 120 operations, and
if you do an O(60) it does
exactly 1200 operations, and
if you do an O(600),
it does exactly 12000 operations.
I literally counted those,
I put a countering.
No matter how big n is,
if you multiply n by 10,
you just get a number of
operations multiplied by 10,
which proves to use that this is a perfect
linear solution, exactly linear solution.
Like I said, it's rare that we get to
those unicorn solutions, but when we do,
that's when you turn the computer off and
you get a beer, and you're like, hah,
did it.
I earned my pay for today.
I thought about the problem and
I figured out the better solution.
Any other questions or
comments about the Knight's Dialer?
>> Comparing the two, cuz the previous
recursion with the memoization was
top-down and this is bottom-up,
if there was a case in production of
a Knight's Dialer, would this
actually be what is put it to use?
>> If I had to do the Knight's Dialer for
production, would I do this?
>> Yeah.
>> I 100% would write that code with
a bottom-up tabulation.
My process is that my brain does not,
for me,
my brain does not naturally think
about the problem in reverse
the way the bottom-up tabulation
requires you to think about it.
So for me, I almost always have to solve
the problem top-down recursively first,
knowing that it's likely not to
be the performance solution.
And then I have to decide,
is there a way for me to do it in reverse?
In other words, are the number of
possible buckets for all those
leaves to be in a fixed and small enough
number or is it practically infinite?
If it's a fixed and small enough number
and if the problem is a counting thing or
is something that I can make act like
counting, right, can I make that work?
Then I'll start trying to write
the bottom-up tabulation.
And if not, I'll apply a memorization and
see, I'll look at my problem, but
I'll apply memorization to see if
that solves my recursive problem.
So that would be my
general approach to this.
I hope maybe someday I can
just look at a problem and
immediately know,
that's a bottom-up tabulation.
I'm not there yet, but
I've at least generalized enough
of this that I can see what parts
of this do need to be present for
this kind of solution to even be possible.
Yeah.
>> Comment on interpreting this problem.
One of the features,
and this is quite rare,
problem you had is you have a stable tree.
Your state tree is finite short, and
it is a legitimate tree, so no cycles, no.
And so as you expand, it expands
to an endpoint to a fixed width.
That's your cue.
When you can say, that fixed
width fits nicely in a small box,
that's the cue that this
could be a good strategy,
because the function is
self-organizing in those cases.
So that's just a comment, but
I agree with you very much.
It's not something that's
gonna jump out to you.
>> Right, and
you do have to inspect the problem,
you have to think about the problem.
To put it in slightly different
terms than what he just said,
if you think about it as
the recursive fanning out.
If there's a convergence into and
I keep using this term of buckets, but
as he said, it's kinda a finite set,
even if that finite set is large,
if it's finite,
it can be done with this tabulation.
But if as you fan out into all possible
solutions, you get to practically
infinite, then this probably isn't
the algorithmic approach that's
gonna prove fruitful for you, so
I probably wouldn't even try it.
So let's take for example,
because this is segue for
the next exercise that
we're gonna dive into.
If you were trying to think
about all the possible words
that you might be generating and
fanning out recursively and
trying to generate a bunch
of different English words.
Well, the English dictionary's 80,000
words, that is a fixed finite size.
So if you were trying to count that,
you could have, practically speaking,
100,000 buckets and
do the counting of that.
But if it was all possible combinations of
characters that aren't constrained by they
need to be valid words in the dictionary,
that's practically an infinite set.
And if you have
a practically infinite set,
that's not where this
algorithm is gonna work.
So that's, I think, what he's saying, is
you have to be able to see that it's gonna
converge to something finite,
not infinite.
Yes, there's another question.
>> What are the cons of tabulation?
>> I mean, the big con to
tabulation is the unfamiliarity.
It's not what most people
see other people writing.
It's not what people pull out readily.
And at least for me, it's not the way my
brain first thinks about the problem.
Because, if I look at the function 4,
6, my brain starts with, okay,
if I'm gonna recurse,
I'm gonna break down the problem into
the hopCount of 5 and the hopCount of 4.
It's the divide and
conquer way of thinking.
So if you've been trained to think that
way, it's very hard to think in reverse.
And once you get better at being able to
think in reverse, that gets easier, but
I'm not sure it ever gets to the point
where that's the natural way
that you think is to solve
a problem in reverse.
That's just one of those
techniques that you pick up.
So I'd say that's the big downside to it.
The sort of secondary effect of that
is whatever code you write to do that,
somebody else can read that code, but
they can't understand why
that code solves the problem.
I mean, most people are not gonna have
any trouble reading your three-nested
for loops.
It's pretty straightforward code,
it's not terribly declarative, but
it's pretty straightforward code.
Most people are not gonna really struggle
with understanding, I see some for
loops here.
But they are likely to strongly
struggle with seeing that code and
understanding how that
code solves the problem.
So there's an additional burden for
you to document, perhaps even creating
the slides like I did, document why
that solution solves the problem.
You have to remember that the code that
we write is our communication to other
humans, including our future selves.
And the code in this particular
solution is not doing
a great job of explaining the why.
It's doing a pretty good
job of explaining the how.
So there's an additional documentation
burden to explain the why.